README.md, before:

# Equi7Grid webviewer

Webviewer for Equi7Grid zone, tiling system, and tile display and interaction.

## Deployment

### Development 

For developing or testing the webviewer, we recommend that you clone the repo and 
deploy it locally on your machine. First, install `uv`:

```bash
wget -qO- https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Next, create your virtual environment, e.g.

```bash
uv venv --python 3.12
```

Finally, you can add all required and optional dependencies to it:

```bash
uv pip install -r pyproject.toml
```

To start the webviewer, you need to execute the following command:

```bash
python app.py
```

### Operations

For deploying the webviewer in an operational manner, we recommend to use the tagged docker images.
In this example we pull the tag `0.1.0` from the TUW-GEO package registry:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/tuw-geo/equi7grid-webviewer:0.1.0
```

To start the webviewer, you need to execute the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 5000:5000 equi7grid-webviewer:0.1.0
```

Note that the docker port 5000 is mapped to the host port 5000 and needs to be modified according to the operational setup.

## Contribute

We are happy if you want to contribute. Please raise an issue explaining what
is missing or if you find a bug. We will also gladly accept pull requests
against our master branch for new features or bug fixes.

### Guidelines

If you want to contribute please follow these steps:

- fork the `equi7grid-webviewer` repository to your account
- clone the repository
- make a new feature branch from the `equi7grid-webviewer` main branch
- add your feature
- submit a pull request to our main branch

Commit message:

added data loading info to readme

README.md, after:

# Equi7Grid webviewer

Webviewer for Equi7Grid zone, tiling system, and tile display and interaction.

## Deployment

The following two sections describe the setup of the webviewer for developers as well as for operational deployment via docker.
Please note that when running the webviewer for the first time, tile data is generated and stored locally, which can take a few minutes.

### Development 

For developing or testing the webviewer, we recommend that you clone the repo and 
deploy it locally on your machine. First, install `uv`:

```bash
wget -qO- https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Next, create your virtual environment, e.g.

```bash
uv venv --python 3.12
```

Finally, you can add all required and optional dependencies to it:

```bash
uv pip install -r pyproject.toml
```

To start the webviewer, you need to execute the following command:

```bash
python app.py
```

### Operations

For deploying the webviewer in an operational manner, we recommend to use the tagged docker images.
In this example we pull the tag `0.1.0` from the TUW-GEO package registry:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/tuw-geo/equi7grid-webviewer:0.1.0
```

To start the webviewer, you need to execute the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 5000:5000 equi7grid-webviewer:0.1.0
```

Note that the docker port 5000 is mapped to the host port 5000 and needs to be modified according to the operational setup.

## Contribute

We are happy if you want to contribute. Please raise an issue explaining what
is missing or if you find a bug. We will also gladly accept pull requests
against our master branch for new features or bug fixes.

### Guidelines

If you want to contribute please follow these steps:

- fork the `equi7grid-webviewer` repository to your account
- clone the repository
- make a new feature branch from the `equi7grid-webviewer` main branch
- add your feature
- submit a pull request to our main branch
